the health authority run by Hamas in
Gaza says operations at its biggest
Hospital have been suspended because the
facility has run out of fuel Hamas
officials say Israeli air strikes hit
alifa Hospital earlier the israelian
military says it's active near the
complex and that Hamas command posts are
located under buildings in the area our
next report contains some images that
may be
disturbing displaced gazin were sleeping
here near Al the hospital when it came
under
[Music]
attack now the area outside the hospital
looks more like a graveyard the hospital
complex where thousands are believed to
have been staying came under
bombardment before the attack Israel
said that its forces had been operating
near the hospital it claims Hamas has
tunnel networks underneath hospitals and
other public
facilities
Hamas Isis hides in hospitals it hides
in humanitarian facilities it hides in
schools it does all these actions that
are a war crime and against
international law we will continue to
expose this to the world we will
continue to expose the face of Hamas
Isis as a terrorist organization that
cynically exploits humanitarian
facilities an Israeli government
spokesperson has claimed hamas's
headquarters is under alifa Hospital
there are fears that medical facilities
in Gaza could lose their protected
status under international law during
war despite the risk the hospital's
medical staff have vowed to continue
providing
care we will serve this hospital and we
will not leave it we will stay with our
patients even if we have to provide
treatment for them by candlelight I
cannot believe that hospitals are being
bombed in the 21st century we cannot
Evacuate the alifa medical complex there
are more than 60 patients in the
Intensive Care Unit more than 50 babies
and incubators the World Health
Organization said that other hospitals
in Gaza have come under bombardment and
that medical facilities are dealing with
shortages Hospital corridors crammed
with the injured the sick the
dying morgs
overflowing surgery without
anesthesia tens of thousands of
displaced people Sheltering at
hospitals families crammed into
overcrowded schools desperate for food
and water Fierce fighting continues with
more and more Health Facilities attacked
forcing more civilians in Northern Gaza
to
flee well let's get more on this from
Jerusalem with DW special correspondent
a ibraim so Aya the Gaza Health Ministry
saying that just a short time ago it had
suspended operations at alifa hospital
what more can you tell
us well Hospital officials said the
hospital has run out of fuel and that as
a result one child one baby in an
incubator has died out of 45 babies that
they have at the hospital that's
according to a spokesperson for the Gaza
for the Hamas controlled Gaza Health
Ministry uh rather this is a scenario
that um doctors in Gaza have been
warning about since virtually the
beginning of this war fuel is essential
to their operations and it was just a
matter of time for that fuel to run out
they have been asking for Israel to
allow fuel into the Gaza Strip also
virtually since the beginning of the war
but the Israeli concern is that this
fuel um could fall into the hands of
Hamas who also use fuel to operate the
tunnel system and also also to launch
rockets and remember um Rockets coming
out of Gaza are still hitting Israeli
cities this is something that we saw
just yesterday uh sorry Hamas Rockets
are still trying to Target Israeli uh
cities just yesterday uh there were
sirens in Tel Aviv and in uh other uh
cities we have also heard from a
spokesperson for the shifa hospital that
the hospital has been struck multiple
times in the past day they've blamed the
Israeli military for that the Israeli
military on the other hand has said that
this is a misfire of a Hamas rocket that
was actually targeting Israeli troops in
the area we're getting contradicting
information from uh both sides on the
story and it's very difficult to be able
to verify exactly what is happening
there as um the few journals that have
been allowed in the Gaza Strip so far
have been embedded with the IDF so we're
not able to really independently uh get
a an act accurate picture of what's
going on around the hospital okay and
just bring us up to speed on the Israeli
army strategy as this ground operation
intensifies in
Gaza we can expect more close combat and
uh Urban Warfare between Israeli troops
and Hamas Fighters and with Urban combat
um you know the death toll casualty toll
is expected to rise both among civilians
and uh uh uh Israeli uh troops but
there's also the hope that with
expanding ground operations there is a
chance for more hostages to be uh
rescued remember there are still over
200 um uh hostages that were kidnapped
by Hamas terrorists on October 7th that
are believed to be in the in the Gaza
Strip so there's hope that with these
grounded operations more of them may be
rescued as well now while All Eyes seem
to be on Gaza at present there's also
unrest in the West Bank as well what's
happening
there violence uh settler violence in
the West Bank is by no means a new
phenomenon this year was already set to
be the most violent on record but what
we've seen since October 7th is a is is
a is an alarming phenomenon that has
been accelerating and that's of um
forced evictions of Palestinian beduin
herders in the West Bank because of
settler uh uh violence according to un
to the UN about thousand of them from 15
hurting communities have been forcefully
uh uh had to leave uh their communities
because of Celler violence I was just in
the West Bank over the past two days and
had a chance to speak to some of the
communities there and what they have
told me is that you know Sellar violence
is nothing new to them but because of
the war and because uh so many people
have been called into reserve duty
they're now seeing settlers that they
know by face and by name coming to
attack them in Israeli military uniform
and that makes it really really
difficult uh because often these these
attacks are not often happening from the
Israeli military and for some families
it's just too danger of a situation and
they have had to uh uh leave risking
their livelihood um and um their safety
the safety of of their children and this
you know this um this increasing
displacement if you will also puts the
entire question of a two-state solution
in an even uh more uh sort of Shaky
Ground because the West Bank is of
course supposed to form the heart of any
future Palestinian State and we have if
we have um increasing displacement and
increasing um uh loss of uh land from
Palestinians that of course makes this a
much more difficult conversation to have
now Israel's primee Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu is under mounting
International pressure to do more to
protect Palestinian civilians how are
people feeling in Israel do they want to
cease fire
I've um spoken to families I think for
the families of the hostages the
question of a ceasefire has to be
contingent with the release of more
hostages I've been to their protests
their sitting in Tel Aviv and that is
certainly something that they're
actually angry at the Prime Minister
about they're saying that any
concessions uh for the Palestinian side
must come hand inand with the release of
uh hostages overall there's um I would
say there's a lot of support for the war
effort here in Israel even though people
here know that it will come at a high
cost also for their own troops because
they feel after you know the horrific
Terror attacks of October 7th this is
the only way to restore uh peace and
security here uh in Israel that's AI
Abraham reporting for us in Jerusalem
thank you so
much well joining me now from Cairo is
Ahmed al- mandari he is the regional
director for the the world health or
organization it's good to have you with
us here on DW news now alifa is gaza's
most extensive hospital just bring us up
to speed on the situation there and the
surrounding
area good morning thank you very much
for giving me the opportunity in fact
you know a shifa hospital is considered
as one of the big hospitals in Gaza uh
it has around 650 beds you know capacity
but they increased it to around 900 um
the bed Capac in fact increased to
188 to accommodate the large number of
casualties sick patients uh the hospital
is hosting um tens of thousands of
refugees you know Sheltering themselves
in that hospital uh out of the 36
hospitals in Gaza in fact 18 are not
functioning either because of the direct
attack or because of the lack of fuel um
hospitals there are serving hundreds of
thousands of patients and as I said you
know accommodating refugees hundreds of
thousands of refugees Sheltering
themselves in these safe places but
unfortunately there are around 235
attacks around in in the whole of OBT
you know occupied Palestinian territory
110 around 110 are inaz which is
affecting damaging you know severely the
healthare system there now you've said
that the hospitals are meant to be a
place of safety and refuge for many
people right now Israel says that
they're striking Hamas targets now based
on the information that you have and
what your colleagues on the ground are
telling you what signs have you seen of
Hamas operations in and around the
hospitals according to the feedback we
are getting not only from who but from
all other un agencies they have not
mentioned to us and we keep asking them
the same question and this feedback is
from the UN they have not yet you know
until now reported to us any doubtfully
military operations there in the
hospital or around it and to be honest
you know what matters to us as a un are
those people who are you know there
above the above the ground you know in
these hospitals there are tens and
thousands of patients many of them are
critical there are thousands of heare
workers there are hundreds of thousands
of innocent civilian people you know are
Sheltering themselves and if Israel is
is is you know having that sort of fear
or worry to me they are are many
political and un channels you know they
can raise that and it has to be
investigated but targeting hospitals for
only the sake of you know having
military people there is not a
justification by International
humanitarian no these healthare
facilities are fully protected and any
breach of that is really worrying
regardless of where is the location and
regardless whom who who is doing it just
talk us through some of the the the
major casualties uh because you know we
are hearing stories about patients and
intensive care babies and incubators how
are doctors trying to treat the wounded
without essential supplies right
now it is very devastating situation
there you know as you said they are
operating with no medications like you
know anesia medication ladies are
delivering in a very dire situation very
bad situations there are around 180
deliveries a day in Gaza there are
around 700 cesarian sections out of
55,000 deliveries inaz many of them are
delivering in bad situations there are
around
130 units under incubators 70 of them
under um you know ventilators it is
really very worrying that those babies
will lose their life there are around
9,000 patients with cancer needing
regular you know treatment chemotherapy
radiotherapy the only Hospital in a or
the main hospital in h providing Cancer
Care is closed so there are tens of
thousands of patients who are in need of
service and they are losing it hour by
hour and this is very worrying to us all
and do you have any information about
these tactical humanitarian pauses that
are meant to be taking effect and what
impact are they having in terms of
bringing Aid into these much-needed
areas yeah we heard about this tactic
you
know poses
but unfortunately I must be clear you
know these poses yes it may help but the
help is very minimal because the need
there is very huge humanitarian need you
know supplies water food fuel to
hospitals as well as medical supplies it
has to be full ceasefire immediately
with no interruption with the safety of
those people who are going to the field
with opening a corridor or more than a
corridor in fact uh before the seven
October you know event around 500 trucks
used to go into a with different
humanitarian supplies until now for
almost more than a month only 650 trucks
entered Gaza with these supplies only 14
trucks with medical supplies from wh so
the the need is for immediate ceasefire
with no interruption with security of
those who are going into the field
because the situation there believe me
is beyond beyond our imagination there
are tens of thousand of Childrens who
are suffering around 10,000 of them are
suffering from acute
malnutrition 5,000 will go into this
severe severe status they need support
there are around
450,000 people now suffering from mental
uh stress and diseases from moderate to
severe many of them are from
schizophrenia pipor disorders depression
they need support and the only Hospital
in Gaza providing mental Health Services
is closed because of direct attacks and
because of lack of fuel these are
examples of the dire
situation ahed alandari from the World
Health Organization speaking to us in
Cairo thank you very much for your
time my pleasure right thank
you now despite international calls to
stop the bombardment Israel is stepping
up its actions in Gaza Israeli troops
are pushing deeper into urban areas in
Northern Gaza as more air strikes pound
the region Israel has also hit sights in
southern Lebanon in the worst escalation
along the border in nearly two decades
its main target is the Hezbollah armed
group an ally of
Hamas let's bring in a journalist Samy
sool who's joining me from Jerusalem so
Samy what more do we know about uh
Israel's strategy right now with this
ground operation and and the continued
intensification so uh the forces inside
the Gaza Strip are now we are seeing
like both from the north of the city and
the south of the city uh there are
forces around the shatti refugee camp
their soldiers have taken over the
shatti school which theyve turned into a
military base and from there they're
going in incursions into the Gaza Strip
we talk about thousands of so that are
deployed and they're talking about a
cooperation between the Air Force which
is continuing to strike and the
artillery at the same time we have the
ground forces and the military is saying
that all the forces are working uh
together and they're talking about a
long stay in the Gaza Strip some are
talking about months of Israeli
operations inside the Gaza Strip and
yesterday we've heard the Israeli
military official talking about a year
inside the Gaza Strip so we're talking
about a very long H campaign and there
is already talk about going down south
to the area where the uh refugees have
been relocated to the to the South so so
after uh what they call cleaning the
north they will be heading towards the
south of the Gaza script and that is why
they are not interested in any ceas fire
at this stage they want to continue they
feel that they still enjoy support from
some of the western Powers especially
the United States and that any any L
will kind of bring an end to this effort
we believe there's also been some
casualties among Israeli soldiers as
well what's the latest on
that yeah there are there been
casualties but all all in
all in terms of the way this campaign is
is coming along the the numbers are not
high the public is supporting this uh
campaign ER the military is saying that
the casualties are
inevitable H the military have to pay a
price for this but so far these numbers
have not exceeded anything that the
public and the military sees as a twoo
higher price yeah um and Israel's prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu has come
under growing International pressure to
do more to protect Palestinian civilians
in Gaza um just give us a little bit
more about the reaction to the criticism
of uh the government's handling so
far
yeah well when Israel waged this uh
campaign in Gaza in the beginning Nan
was saying that one of the goals of this
campaign is
Revenge so and and other people in
government and we saying that this
campaign is going to look totally
different from other campaigns in terms
of the aggressiveness in terms of the
fact that they're not going to let any
humanitarian Aid into the Gaza Strip
well what we we've seen is that as a
result of the international pressure
Israel is
enabling trucks to go into the
Gaza but so long there is a green light
for Israel to operate it will continue
with the campaign okay thank you that's
Sammy CLE speaking to us in
Jerusalem now Arab leaders are gathering
in Saudi Arabia for an emergency Summit
on Gaza Palestinian president Mahmud
Abbas has arrived in Riyad for the talks
as the war reaches its fifth week Arab
nations are expected to issue a joint
call for an end to Israel's bombardment
of Gaza the leaders of Syria and Iran
are also among those
attending well here's a look at some
other stories making headlines around
the world Germany's foreign minister
analina bbok is pushing for a two-state
solution to the conflict she's making
her third visit to the Middle East since
the start of hostilities she began in
the United Arab Emirates and is heading
to Saudi Arabia
next well activists in the UK have
blockaded a British military equipment
manufacturer calling for a ceasefire in
Gaza and an end to arm sales to Israel
the BAE Systems Factory doesn't directly
export equipment to Israel but supplies
parts of the US made fighter jets flown
by the Israeli
military